Okay so here's a reminder of the challenge speccy itself we're going to be making a portcullis with
two animations one descending slowly and smoothly and the second one slamming down.
Let's go over into Gib now and do this challenge now that we're covering him.
The first thing we need to do is decide on our campuses.
I'm going to work.
No larger than 128 by 128 for this particular project.
I'm going to zoom in all the way and then start thinking about how I can easily construct my background.
In this case it can be a foreground.
So let's change that straightaway to foreground.
So what are we going to do we're going to have like an archway here.
And this is one of those things where you can create a new layer.
And I'm going to call it archway for the moment and you can go ahead and produce an archway how you
like and you can only produce half of it.
And then we can duplicate that half and reflect the layer.
And by doing that we save ourselves a lot of time.
So I'm going to go ahead now speed up the video as I construct the archway and I'll slow down again
when it comes to the mirroring.
So there we go I've constructed an arch where needed to go back and do that again.
I thought that two pixels wide on the brush would have been fine.
Doesn't work out that well as you probably saw their vision shift key and just during a series of straight
lines to create my curve.
I'm happy with the overall shape.
Now there is something here that I do want to add I want to add a couple of bricks to give this a bit
more life to it's going to take a bit longer.
I'm going to zoom in to do those and obviously I'm going to be working on only one side.
I'll see you guys back in a moment.
Okay.
And there we go.
Got a rough outline here.
And as you can see I started by making some pretty straight bricks and I thought you know what.
It's not really going to be like that.
I may need to modify this top bit but that's half the work done there with the archway.
I can now go to layer Auto kropp the lassus and much much smaller.
Now one of the issues I've got here of course is the ground that I drew goes all the way across.
And that actually isn't ideal in this case.
So I'm going to grab the eraser with the hard edge and erase that line that I originally drew and for
the moment I'll pop the ground on a different layer and I will call it ground.
And this is one of the great things about splitting it up.
It enables you to just make even temporary things to temporary layers that can come back and be merged
in almost immediately afterwards.
So autocross below it gets much smaller which is what I was expecting I'm going to duplicate that layer
and then in the layer transforms literally flip it horizontally grab the move tool moving the active
layer and then it's just a matter of lining it back up.
How are we doing there.
That looks pretty good.
Now comes the option of whether or not emerge down at this point.
Now am I going to make any sense any other symmetrical alterations.
I don't think I am.
So I'm going to merge the ground down submerged down merge the archway down and merge that final archway
down onto the foreground so now I have a white background.
Now I need a cut out here for the poor commerce to come down.
So I'm going to go in with the Fuzz's Select Tool schauffler has no boundaries and then when I hit the
delete key it will clear it for me.
Now it must be said that this is only working because this layer has an outer layer.
If it doesn't you need to right click and make sure that you have an alpha channel on the layer.
Otherwise you won't be able to perform this action.
So now we can see through there is a matter of constructing our poor colour.
And again if you imagine this is a spight Gate and it's got a lot of repeating patterns on it.
So this is also something that I can make one or two pieces and just duplicate it several times.
Also because the portcullises going to be hidden behind this foreground it means that we've got a few
more options on being a bit sloppy.
I will use that term and not have clean edges on our poor colour.
Some going to go ahead now and construct that on a new layer.
I'm going to put it on a transparent air that's fine and port colours there ever go so I can start constructing
that now and I will see you back again in a few moments.
And now I have one of the vertical bars made.
I just need to decide on the horizontal ones as well now.
I've gone for a pixel width of five for my brush type here and what I can do is I can put in the edges
straight away so I can decide that I'm going to go there and then maybe here and just have this going
up a regular distance I hope.
And then I'll be able to just duplicate this layer lots and stick it all together and that will be support
colours made.
Okay so I think that's finished off there.
I'm going to go in and make it a bit smaller with auto prop player so we've got the lay a boundary around
it.
Well I'm going to duplicate that and hopefully when I move it to the side.
Excellent.
We can make ourselves the rest of the portcullis and again duplicate it now naming at this point.
I don't need to tidy up the naming until the very end because I'm going to be merging them back together.
Now I do need to make sure that we've got consistent with here as I'm putting this together and assembling
it.
I'm happy with that.
Now of course there are a couple of ways I can continue doing this.
I am literally just going to carry on duplicating and moving and then I will merge down at the very
end.
So I've gone for slightly rectangular holes rather than square holes mainly because that's how I started
doing it.
So I'm going to finish doing it that way as well.
So one more duplication and we've got ourselves the portcullis and this is what I mean by being a little
bit sloppy.
That's the way the gate is probably like fat in the background anyway and in the runners so that's absolutely
fine.
But the foreground will be on top of it all and will not have any capacity so it will sit there nice
and neat.
Finally I do need to put all of these and this case I don't think I need any modularity so I will just
merge them all down.
And there we go we have our port colours that we move up and down and start animating.
Excellent.
So this is where we can start thinking about our first animation which is slow and steady.
I'm going to create myself a layer group.
You know I haven't done at all.
That's do a save.
First of all.
And my Save dialogue popped up on another window.
Here we go.
And I'm going to call this what it is 12.
Yes.
She empey Practice 13 port colours and I'm going to call this portcullis.
They had these.
So I know what it is.
And at the same time because I don't want to have to undo and just move layers about that can be very
confusing.
I'm going to call this one fast or slam or something along those lines.
That's the strip descriptive.
So now we got that there.
We've got a foreground.
Background in a layer group.
Let's put them the right way round and let's call this frame number one.
Excellent so we've got all the basics there.
And it is just a matter now of moving this portcullis and hopefully we'll be able to make maybe a two
second animation of it coming down.
Okay sevak is looking pretty good so far I'm asking to save my work.
And then I need to export it and see what it looks like.
So I'm going to save as and put flaten on the end.
Oh we've been working on the slam one too ably spot my liberator mistake there.
So this is portcullis steady.
And then flaten.
And before I do anything else I save as an overall rights.
The steady one because that's what it is.
And then I go ahead and sort out the slam one in bit.
So let's go and flatten me down so merge the lower group for all of the active labour groups.
A case of the exports let's export it's obviously as a Giff not happy Giff But if there were no exports.
And we get an error message and if we read the error message it's just warning us that we will lose
information in the format for the areas of the image that are outside of the canvas.
So I'm absolutely fine with it being cropped as an animation tenth of a second that's fine.
It's coming down over a second and delay between frames is fine but I do want to replace each frame
and go ahead and export and then we can go and have a look at that.
And here we go here it is coming down nice and steady animation one done and on the slam one.
So let's go back over into gimping going to go ahead and open up recent and open up my slab.
There we go.
Close the other one down.
Yes I do want to save.
So what do we do here.
Well I'm going to tidy up first of all and go back to for just having frame one and doing the same thing
that this time thinking about it.
Picking up speed and then moving quickly before eventually slamming into the ground.
And I think of something like that's going to slam into the ground.
It's going to bounce a little at the very bottom and I'll see by just placing these individual frames
whether or not I can get it looking as I expect it to be.
In this particular case I am actually counting the number of pixels are moving something.
So the next one is 24 pixels of all these things that go through.
Starting point to an omelette she going one two three four.
Now the question is if I elongated this layer by stretching it in height will actually look better and
we can we can cross tests that are make it unstretched then I'll do a bit of squash and stretch afterwards
if I've got the time.
So that's go ahead it's hit the ground there that's do the next layer and have it bounce up just a little
bit violent.
They had to about that level I think and then come back down again.
One two.
One two three four six accelerating again another layer one two three four.
And it's on the ground any way.
And that's are 10 frames as well so that matches perfectly with the length of the other one that's go
ahead and say fats and go ahead and save as.
Then we need the flattened version to the test and one day I will spell flatten correctly.
It skews that.
Okay.
So let's merge these labour groups.
Now that they're all merged down I'm going to save the work and export its And name it properly here.
I'll go through and rename those horrible spellings flatten that case again it's warming up.
Happy to crop it's remembered the previous settings go.
Go and explore those.
So let's just see whether the slam is more effective.
And here we go.
Here it comes and slamming down and bouncing.
Yes that's exactly the effect I wanted.
I'm really glad it's come out like that.
And finally I don't think looking at this animation whether stretching it is going to make that much
of a difference.
I'm going to give it a quick go and I'll see you guys back in a few moments.
And looking at our frames themselves what we've got to bear in mind here is where it impacts the ground
frame six.
That's where it's going to be the most stretched.
So we go to layer scaling that particular layer.
We can see that.
Why don't we just really exaggerate this and take out 256 in height.
And I've run into a slight issue here.
I don't know where that was before so I'm going to undo the scale duplicate the layer.
So I've got a reference layer there.
Then go ahead with the layout and scaling the layer to I dunno 170 this is an arbitrary number.
Forgotten So click that chain link again.
Don't worry if you do that.
So round one 70 scale.
Now I've got an active layer that I can line it back up with.
I'm going to move it slightly to the side and then move it back across.
There we go.
Now I can delete the port colours for completely and I've got a stretched there.
So we've got that we've got the one above it that's absolutely fine and I'm just going.
I don't think those top ones are going to be stretched at all.
But above that's way it hits the ground.
Well let's see what that looks like.
It's got a bit of stretch in it.
There's no squash.
I'm happy to saturate the fall by making it stretched thin as save as slam stretch.
And then.
Save as.
Slam.
Stretch.
Flatten.
Now we can go ahead just flatten these down and hopefully it will all work out.
To got everything there that's go ahead and save that one small and then exports export and will have
remembered all of the previous options.
Go ahead click export and of course test that.
And here we go with the stretch.
I don't think it adds anything to it.
I think in this case my my my gut feeling when I was watching it that the port colours slam.
It's self because it's a rigid body anyway that looks much better than trying to stretch.
In this case.
Excellent.
How did you guys get on.
Looking forward to seeing your work over in the discussions.
And as always I'll see you in the next video.